5.3.2023

Set up the devlopment environment and added dependencies for ScalaFX and ScalaTest.
Created the initial project structure necessary for developing the game map.

Implemented the TerrainTile trait with a couple of example terrain tile classes
implementing it with different degrade methods based on their nature and
ConfigurationConstants, changing TerrainTiles' "projectile passability" property to
"elevation" to model the terrain itself more realistically and leave projectile
passability to be calculated by the game class based on the tile properties instead.
Dependency for O1Library added to access the grid package, Map class started and
sand terrain tile added along with preliminary sketches of assets to resources.

Development is late due to workload from other courses, resulting in me only reaching
approximately 18h of work, and me being overly careful with every move so that I
would not have to wrestle with IDE configuation issues or git conflicts in the future
as my experience with both thus far consists largely of defeats. Difficulties faced
mostly include bad tutorials for libraries and my cluelessness about best practices,
especially in building the GUI, many of which have not been resolved yet. I hope to
catch up next week and cannot wait to implement the actual game logic.

6.3.2023

Implemented preliminary drawMapTiles and drawPic methods in GUI and updated TerrainTile
subclasses to case classes. GUI now displays the desired tile textures in a single row.
Modified GUI to display tiles in a MapWidth by MapHeight grid layout using GridPane and
added more placeholder assets. Implemented BattleUnit trait to the extent it was defined
in the technical plan with a TankUnit case class to have something to instantiate for
displaying BattleUnits on the map. Also added more class files.

Development has caught up to plan more, considering that many of week 2 goals have been
completed although there are no controllable battle units on the map yet.

20.3.2023

I am extremely late from the intended schedule because of various other course deadlines
and personal reasons. I simply did not have even a chance to open the project in the past
two weeks. I must cut simultaneous turns entirely and not even think about a random
generated map at this point. I must implement my own grid system because that of O1's does
not work and I will most likely have to utilize all the time I have, meaning that I will
not be able to return the project a week before. Plenty of sleepless nights lie ahead!

23.3.2023

Various changes to facilitate displaying BattleUnits on the map including refactoring GUI
methods and many other player- and BattleUnit-related classes. Due to the lack of time,
CompassDir issue was solved by caving in and adding swing as a dependency as a quick
bandaid solution. displayInGrid method was rewritten to draw TerrainTiles and BattleUnits
alike based on their positions in the grid instead of index in a vector, resulting in
BattleUnits finally being displayed on top of the map in the GUI.

24.3.2023

Added a GameMap companion object with tileGenerator and tileUpdater methods for fast and
flexible map building, as well as a getTile method for the GameMap class in anticipation
of future use. Added the symmetricTileUpdater method, which necessitated the ability for
TerrainTiles to copy themselves as well, so that only half of the map must be specified.
This also serves my original idea for the gameplay as identical sides give equal
opportunities to both players. However, I might want to change this symmetry later to be
only about the y-axis to encourage more interesting encounters and conflict. Furthermore,
I refactored drawMapTiles, drawBattleUnits, TerrainTiles and BattleUnits such that the
latter two contain their own images to achieve better encapsulation and built an initial
map for testing. I will have to soon look into some optimization already as building and
launching the GUI takes quite long after the changes. I still have to build the interface
for giving instructions to the BattleUnits but after that I will finally get to work on
the game logic.

25.3.2023

Improved game performance seen as shorter startup times and higher window responsivity by
enabling hardware acceleration and by moving the image generation back to the GUI functions,
leaving only the FileInputStreams to the TerrainTIle and BattleUnit case classes, which
resulted in most performance gains.